Let's take a look at leveraging identity and access
management roles to implement a secure access model in AWS.
As discussed earlier, access to the AWS API is required for doing anything in AWS.
This is true both from a management standpoint and
for applications to access services and data,
be it manually through the console or leveraging the CLI or SDK for applications,
the more access that is provided,
the more risk there is.
This access is generally provided by creating
an IAM user and providing API credentials or keys for that user.
The user is assigned a policy which will define what the user is authorized to do.
Once that is in place,
the users and applications can start making use of Cloud services.
Now let's take a look at an application that has been
written to make use of these IAM user keys.
In our example here,
we have a simple application which will need to read data from an S3 bucket.
You can see that the AWS credentials are defined near the beginning of the code,
followed by calls to the S3 to get the file object.
API keys may also be stored locally in a configuration file.
So why is this a bad idea from a security perspective?
API keys like this can be compromised in many ways.
Imagine a situation where keys in the config file or
code were accidentally pushed to a public code repository.
The keys are also at risk if a server or a laptop are
compromised due to exploited vulnerabilities or malware.
Let's look at a better way to do this.
To avoid managing sensitive keys altogether,
a much better approach is to provide access using IAM roles.
The key benefit of IAM roles is that all credentials are temporary
once assumed and there's no need to store API keys permanently.
Applications running on containers and servers can simply
assume roles which are assigned to the server infrastructure.
As you can see in the example code,
there's no longer any need to handle API keys within the code or config files.
Assuming a role means that the application can obtain
temporary credentials that are aligned to the roles permissions,
IAM roles can also be used to provide access to
a multiple AWS accounts being used by an organization,
without the need for managing many users across many accounts.
IAM roles also paved the way for devising
an elevated privileged model or complete identity federation,
effectively removing the risk associated with managing users and identities in AWS.
Let's take a look at a few common architectural patterns,
which will illustrate the differences between using IAM users and IAM roles.